So organization problems, right?
I actually used this in my last course
because it's such a good GIF, but
it is very true.
Quite often than not,
when we have organizational problems,
we just take them and
we put them over with the other fire.
And so we're going to be taking a look at
some of the organization problems that we
deal with fires quite often, right?
So what are common problems
that orgs face, right?
Well, now that we've talked about
what problems we're trying to solve,
common organization problems
can be things like RBAC, right?
Making sure that you have
a good RBAC policy in place so
that everywhere somebody tries accessing
something, there's permissions there,
there might be groups there.
One thing that a lot of companies fail at
as well is assigning people individually
instead of creating groups that people get
added to that then get added to projects.
The big reason for that is because then
you'd have the ability to do onboarding,
where you can onboard somebody to a
specific thing and say, okay, now you have
access to this you're on this team, and
this is actually how we do this at Hippo.
We don't have individuals
that is not allowed.
And you will get in
trouble if you do that.
[LAUGH] But basically,
everything is team based.
So having that team based
perspective can be very helpful.
Domains and DNS is a huge one, right?
Again, I'm not even trying to talk about
the crazy engineering companies out there.
I'm just thinking simply, right?
What is your domain?
What is your DNS,
how does it route, right?
How do people get to your website?
Stuff like that.
And then underneath that is networking,
right?
So we've got domain set up now,
we've got DNS.
Well, what about networks?
What kinda networks do we need?
And then finally, resources,
right, compute and storage.
And you could see how we,
once again, are building layers
that stack on top of each other.
And this is gonna be a very,
very, honestly,
DevOps is very much just like
playing with Legos, [LAUGH].
You have components that you build and
then you build them on top of each other,
and if you can keep that modularity,
then it doesn't matter what tool you use.
It doesn't matter what
kind of practices you do,
because they're all components that can
kinda be swapped in and out pretty easily.
So let's talk about role-based
access control, and
what do we care about with that, right?
Well, again, we wanna have
the concept of organizational units.
We should start with teams, right?
Have the concept of no individual has
access to something directly, right?
Because if that happens and
that person leaves the company,
then what do we do, right?
So no individuals, right, teams.
And then what we do is, is we have
individuals or developers, again,
be added to those teams, so
that then developers have proper
scopes to everything that they need.
Outside of that, we also might
have outside contributors, right?
So you need to think about that.
And that's another thing a lot of
companies don't consider because it might
not be something that's on their plate or
something they're thinking about, right?
But sometimes you definitely have
people who come from the outside in and
you think about, well,
how do we onboard those people?
How do we get those
people involved as well?
Domains and DNS,
this one's pretty simple as well.
More often than not, you'll have
a private DNS, and I do recommend this.
What do I mean by that?
I mean that you actually have
a completely separate domain for
all of your private stuff.
Have a private domain.
For example, at Hippo,
we have Hippo Private.
So we got to hippo-private.com,
that is a completely locked off
VPN-only accessible domain layer.
And all of our internal services
go through that, right?
Now why do we do that?
Because then we can standardize
how that works internally and
it doesn't necessarily directly
impact our external domains.
External domains get crazy, you gotta
add all of these routing, redirects,
all of these things.
And so we want private to be as simple and
as maintained as possible, right?
So having a top level domain for private
domains versus public is very helpful.
And a DNS management,
figuring out how you're gonna, do not,
please do not cPanel it, okay,
we're way beyond cPanel now.
There's nice solutions out there for
DNS management,
Cloudflare, Amazon, Azure, right?
These solutions really help you set up
DNS management and routing easily, and
they're good for that.
Honestly, I do not think you
should run your own DNS.
I don't, it's normally runs
into DNS being the problem.
So lean that onto somebody else, make
somebody else take care of that for you.
And the DNS, hopefully, won't be
a problem unless there's an outage.
Networking, as I said before,
private networks, public networks,
firewall security boundaries,
secure VPN connections, right?
The whole idea here is, is that,
going back to the private versus public,
how do we get people into our networks?
How do we get developers
into our networks?
How do we make sure that the two don't
mesh or blend into each other, right?
Networking does become a big problem
when you actually wanna talk about how
are people going to work on things versus
how people are gonna buy things from us.
VPN as well.
So I know that there's
a lot of options out there.
I know you can do Bastion servers and
all those kinda things.
I think if you go back to what I said
before about wanting to provide a good
developer experience, VPN should be easy.
VPN should not be a situation where
somebody has to open up their
system settings, click the VPN,
copy and paste the address,
copy and paste the security key.
It's very troublesome.
A lot of people just check out.
There's really great solutions
out there for VPNs today.
We use Twingate.
Twingate is a very,
very popular VPN solution.
It's really nice.
There's other options out there that
are even free, things like that.
I would recommend Twingate just because
Twingate also leans on the principles
we've already talked about.
It's got RBAC, it's got team access,
it's got resource allocation and
stuff like that.
So finding something VPN wise that
actually makes that part of it easier for
you can really help with getting
people into your private networks and
stuff like that.